---
title: Alpha Test
date: 2024-11-26 12:00:00
categories: [Testing, New Version]
tags: [felfhenor]
---

# Welcome to the HATOFF Alpha!

Welcome to the [HATOFF](https://heroes.felfhenor.com) Alpha! Here, I'd like to go over a little bit about the game, what you can expect, and the general flow of the game. This is a really early version, and I'm hoping it goes well, but it's hard to predict where we'll be in a day, much less a week or a month. This is the minimum viable product for what I consider a playable game. Testing of previous versions has come out to a semi-active 8-10 hours. With dungeons added, I could see it being a 10-15 hour experience as it stands today.

> Warning: Try to always keep a backup save file, just in case!
{: .prompt-warning }

## What Is HATOFF?

HATOFF is a game about acquiring heroes, getting them to do tasks on repeat, making your heroes stronger, and eventually sending the strongest ones to explore dungeons. Worry not, if a hero isn't to your liking, you can use it as fodder to Fuse into another hero. You'll also want to balance researching with other tasks, as research is the primary way you acquire new Archetypes, Population Limits, Hero Types, and other game features (such as Fusion, the Shop, Town Defense, and Exploration).

Over time, you'll acquire lots of new game features through the research feature. Make sure you always have someone researching! Research selection is a _manual_ process, which means you must check in periodically to change to a new research item.

> Tip: Research often!
{: .prompt-tip }

## What Can I Do?

In this first version of HATOFF, you'll be able to do the following:

- Acquire up to 11 heroes
- Fuse heroes into stronger heroes
- Research 99+ different things
- Click-to-gain-XP for heroes
- Play on easy, normal, or hard mode (hard mode _not_ recommended for those looking for a chill experience)
- Acquire a shop, and research lots of items to boost your heroes up
- Explore 4+ dungeons, acquiring relics which unlock more game features
- Defend your town against incoming woodland attacks

> Tip: You can give your heroes XP and use items on them to increase their stats while they're busy doing other things!
{: .prompt-tip }

## What Do I Want To Change?

Over time, I would like to add a bunch of new features to HATOFF, based on feedback / ideation. You can see [my todo list here](https://github.com/orgs/felfhenor/projects/1/views/1?query=sort%3Aupdated-desc+is%3Aopen), but some highlights:

- Add SFX
- Figure out some kind of town prestige mechanic, to curtail infinitely-increasing defensive needs
- Add injuries instead of deaths / stuns to heroes, which would eventually result in death (basically adding a step to the process)
- Add a research tree visualizer, rather than a list of cards
- Mod support

## What Am I Looking For?

I'm looking for feedback on the following:

- UI improvements (especially around gathering and refining)
- Balance suggestions
- Town prestige suggestions
- Item suggestions
- Any bugs

> When reporting a bug, please include your savefile. You can export it by going to settings -> Export Character.
{: .prompt-info }

Significant contributors can also end up as a custom in-game hero 👀.

## Join Us!

You can [join us on Discord](https://discord.felfhenor.com/) to participate in the discussion, ask questions, or report bugs. Or just hang out!

- Sei
